scripts: Add push_pkg.sh to enhance package development workflow (v2) (#2023)
freifunk-gluon/gluon: docs/dev/packages.rst

Gluon packages are OpenWrt packages and follow the same rules described at https://openwrt.org/docs/guide-developer/packages.

Development workflow
====================

When you are developing packages, it often happens that you iteratively want to deploy
and verify the state your development. There are two ways to verify your changes:

1) One way is to rebuild the complete firmware, flash it, configure it and verify your
   development then. This usually takes at least a few minutes to get your changes
   working so you can test them. Especially if you iterate a lot, this becomes tedious.
2) Another way is to rebuild only the package you are currently working on and
   to deploy this package to your test system. Here not even a reboot is required.
   This makes iterating relatively fast. Your test system could be real hardware or
   even a qemu in most cases.

Gluon provides scripts to enhance workflow 2):

.. code-block:: shell

  # start a local qemu instance

>   contrib/run_qemu.sh output/images/factory/[...].img

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  contrib/run_qemu.sh output/images/factory/[...]-x86-64.img
```

>   # do your changes in the file you want to patch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # apply changes to the desired package
```

  vi package/gluon-ebtables/files/etc/init.d/gluon-ebtables

  # rebuild and push the package
  contrib/push_pkg.sh package/gluon-ebtables/

  # test your changes
  ...

  # do more changes
  ...

>   # rebuild and push the package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # rebuild and push the package to the running vm
```

  contrib/push_pkg.sh package/gluon-ebtables/

  # test your changes
  ...

  (and so on...)

  # see help of the script for more information
  contrib/push_pkg.sh -h
  ...

Implementation details of ``push_pkg.sh``:

> * Currently this is based on ssh/scp.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* File transfers use the scp utility.
```

> * Opkg is used to install/update the packages in the remote machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Packages are installed/updated using ``opkg`` on the virtual machine.
```

* It does neither build nor push dependencies of the packages automatically.

> * It will not override /etc/config with package defaults by default. (See the cli switch ``-P``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It will not override ``/etc/config`` with package defaults by default. (See the cli switch ``-P``).
```

Benefits:

* This works with compiled and non-compiled packages.
* This works with native OpenWrt and Gluon packages.
* This even performs the ``check_site.lua`` checks as they are integrated as post_install scripts into the openwrt package.

> * It works for all architectures/targets.

Reviewer: Except `run_qemu.sh` uses KVM on x86_64. The relationship between `run_qemu.sh` and developing on actual hardware isn't clear from this.

Note that:

* If you add new packages, you must run ``make update config GLUON_TARGET=...``.
* You can change the target via ``make config GLUON_TARGET=...``.
* Sometimes when things break, you can heal them by compiling a package with its dependencies: ``cd openwrt; make package/gluon-ebtables/clean; make package/gluon-ebtables/compile; cd ..``.
* You can exit qemu by pressing ``CTRL + a`` and ``c`` afterwards.

> * ``push_pkg.sh`` can also be used to push packages to other targets than qemu or x86-64.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``push_pkg.sh`` can also be used to push packages to other targets than your native arch.
```

Is this the intended meaning?
